Create a tutorial for setting Minio to the GCP Gateway mode (#3377)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/asset-store/docs/08-01-gateway-mode-set-up.md

---
title: Set Minio to the Google Cloud Storage Gateway mode
type: Tutorials
---

By default, you install Kyma with the Asset Store in Minio stand-alone mode. This tutorial shows how to set Minio to the Google Cloud Storage (GCS) Gateway mode using an [override](/root/kyma/#tutorials-helm-overrides-for-kyma-installation).

## Prerequisites

- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)
- [gcloud](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/)

> - [Google Cloud Platform (GCP)](https://cloud.google.com) project

Author: Previously it was GCS and now it is GCP so I will leave the full expression

## Steps

> You can set Minio to the GCS Gateway mode both during and after Kyma installation. In both cases you need to create and configure a Google service account, apply a ConfigMap with an override onto a cluster or Minikube, and trigger the Kyma installation process. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can set Minio to the GCS Gateway mode both during and after Kyma installation. In both cases, you need to create and configure a Google service account, apply a ConfigMap with an override onto a cluster or Minikube, and trigger the Kyma installation process. 
```

> >**CAUTION:** Buckets created in Minio without using Bucket CR are neither recreated nor migrated while switching to the Minio Gateway mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**CAUTION:** Buckets created in Minio without using Bucket CRs are not recreated and migrated while switching to the Minio Gateway mode.
```

Reviewer: Just a proposal to simplify it, but do as you like :)

    - **PROJECT** is the GCP project ID.
    - **SECRET_FILE** is the path to the private key.
    - **ROLE** is the **Storage Admin** role bound to the service account.

    Example:
    ```
    export SA_NAME=my-service-account
    export SA_DISPLAY_NAME=service-account
    export PROJECT=service-account-012345
    export SECRET_FILE=my-private-key-path
    export ROLE=roles/storage.admin
    ```
2. When you communicate with Google Cloud for the first time, set context to your Google Cloud project. Run this command:
    ```bash
    gcloud config set project $PROJECT
    ```
3. Create a service account. Run:
    ```bash
    gcloud iam service-accounts create $SA_NAME --display-name $SA_DISPLAY_NAME
    ```
4. Add a policy binding for the **Storage Admin** role to the service account. Run:
    ```bash
    gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding $PROJECT --member=serviceAccount:$SA_NAME@$PROJECT.iam.gserviceaccount.com --role=$ROLE
    ```
5. Create a private key for the service account:
    ```bash
    gcloud iam service-accounts keys create $SECRET_FILE --iam-account=$SA_NAME@$PROJECT.iam.gserviceaccount.com
    ```

> 5. Export the private key as the environment variable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Export the private key as an environment variable:
```

    ```bash
    export GCS_KEY_JSON=$(< "${SECRET_FILE}" base64 | tr -d '\n')
    ```

### ConfigMap

Apply the following ConfigMap with an override onto a cluster or Minikube. Run:
```bash
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
    name: asset-store-overrides
    namespace: kyma-installer

>     labels:

Reviewer 2: Too many spaces ;)
```bash
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: asset-store-overrides
  namespace: kyma-installer
  labels:
    installer: overrides
    component: assetstore
    kyma-project.io/installation: ""
type: Opaque
data:
    minio.gcsgateway.gcsKeyJson: "${GCS_KEY_JSON}"
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: asset-store-overrides
  namespace: kyma-installer
  labels:
    installer: overrides
    component: assetstore
    kyma-project.io/installation: ""
data:
    minio.persistence.enabled: "false"
    minio.gcsgateway.enabled: "true"
    minio.defaultBucket.enabled: "false"
    minio.gcsgateway.projectId: "${PROJECT}"
    global.minioExternalEndpoint: "https://storage.googleapis.com"
EOF
```

    installer: overrides
    component: assetstore
    kyma-project.io/installation: ""
type: Opaque
data:
    minio.gcsgateway.gcsKeyJson: "${GCS_KEY_JSON}"
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
    name: asset-store-overrides
    namespace: kyma-installer
    labels:
    installer: overrides
    component: assetstore
    kyma-project.io/installation: ""
data:
    minio.persistence.enabled: "false"
    minio.gcsgateway.enabled: "true"
    minio.defaultBucket.enabled: "false"
    minio.gcsgateway.projectId: "${PROJECT}"
    global.minioExternalEndpoint: "https://storage.googleapis.com"
EOF
```

> >**CAUTION** When you install Kyma locally from sources, you need to manually add the ConfigMap and the Secret to the `installer-config-local.yaml.tpl` template located under the `installation/resources` subfolder before you run the installation script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**CAUTION:** When you install Kyma locally from sources, you need to manually add the ConfigMap and the Secret to the `installer-config-local.yaml.tpl` template located under the `installation/resources` subfolder before you run the installation script.
```

### Kyma installation

> Trigger Kyma installation or update by labeling the `kyma-installtion` custom resource. Run:

Reviewer: Actually, the CR name is Installation -> I know that it is written similarly (`kyma-installation` custom resource) in the [local installation doc](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/docs/kyma/docs/04-02-local-installation.md) (point 8) but I think it is not correct, @tomekpapiernik, am I right?
As for the CR formatting, we use:
- `installations.installer.kyma-project.io` CustomResourceDefinition (CRD) 
- Installation custom resource

See the [Installation CR](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/docs/kyma/docs/05-02-custom-component-installation.md) for reference.

Author: I will change to the Installation custom resource.

> Trigger Kyma installation or update by labeling the `kyma-installtion` custom resource. Run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Trigger Kyma installation or update by labeling the `kyma-installation` custom resource. Run:
```

---
title: Set Minio to the Google Cloud Storage (GCS) Gateway mode
type: Tutorials
---

This tutorial shows how to set Minio to the Google Cloud Storage (GCS) Gateway mode. Follow these guidelines to create a secret and update the Asset Store deployment.

## Prerequisites

- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/#install-kubectl)
- [helm](https://github.com/helm/helm#install)

> - [Google Cloud Platform (GCP)](https://cloud.google.com)  access

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Google Cloud Platform (GCP)](https://cloud.google.com)  project
```

## Steps

To set Minio to a Gateway mode, you need a Secret with a service account that has the **Storage Admin** role permissions.

> ### Create a Secret

Reviewer 3: I don't like UI instruction if stuff can be done with CLI
add gcloud to prerequisites and explan how to create a service account and access key as it is done in this instruction https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/docs/kyma/docs/04-04-gke-installation.md#get-the-tls-certificate

1. Open the [service accounts page](https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/serviceaccounts).
2. Select one of the projects or create a new one. Note down the project ID as you must use it to update the Asset Store deployment.
3. Click **Create service account**, name your account, and click **Create**.
4. Set the `Storage Admin` role.
5. Click **Create key** and choose `JSON` as a key type.
6. Save the `JSON` file.
7. Create a Secret from the JSON file by running this command:
    ```bahs
    kubectl create secret generic assetstore-gcs-credentials --from-file=service-account.json={filename} --namespace kyma-system
    ```

### Update the Asset Store deployment

To update the Asset Store deployment, run this command:

```bash
helm upgrade assetstore resources/assetstore --namespace kyma-system --wait=true --reuse-values --set minio.persistence.enabled=false --set minio.gcsgateway.enabled=true --set minio.gcsgateway.replicas=1 --set minio.gcsgateway.gcsKeySecret=assetstore-gcs-credentials --set minio.gcsgateway.projectId={gcp-project} --set minio.defaultBucket.enabled=false
```

> >**NOTE:** This is an alpha version of the Asset Store. In this version, the GCS `content` bucket is not available in the Minio Gateway mode.

Reviewer 3: not sure what is the purpose of this note. We know about legacy issue with have with `content` bucket as we should simply not release this docs until it is solved, otherwise customer will break his functionality with this steps

---
title: Set Minio to the Google Cloud Storage Gateway mode
type: Tutorials
---

By default, you install Kyma with the Asset Store in Minio stand-alone mode. This tutorial shows how to set Minio to the Google Cloud Storage (GCS) Gateway mode using an [override](/root/kyma/#tutorials-helm-overrides-for-kyma-installation).

## Prerequisites

- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)
- [gcloud](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/)
- [Google Cloud Platform (GCP)](https://cloud.google.com) project

> ## Steps

Reviewer 3: I would love to have a clear separation of the steps, which ones are about setting up a credentials in GCP and which are about configuring Kyma and triggering installation.

we need to remember that there are also pro users that will not need gcp instructions and will just have a JSON in their hands already. It will be easier for them to navigate to proper kyma config instruction rather than read all the steps

Author: I had it that way and changed it when I was removing toggles. OK.

> You can set Minio to the GCS Gateway mode during Kyma installation, or switch to the GCS Gateway mode after Kyma installation. In both cases you need to create a Google service account that has a private key and the **Storage Admin** role permissions, apply a ConfigMap with an override onto a cluster or Minikube, and trigger Kyma installation. Follow these steps:

Reviewer 3: we need a red note that buckets created in Minio without using Bucket CR are not recreated/migrated while switching to Minio Gateway

    ```
6. Export the private key as the environment variable:
    ```bash
    export GCS_KEY_JSON=$(< ${SECRET_FILE} base64 | tr -d '\n')
    ```
7. Apply the following ConfigMap with an override onto a cluster or Minikube. Run:
    ```bash
    cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Secret
    metadata:
      name: asset-store-overrides
      namespace: kyma-installer
      labels:
        installer: overrides
        component: assetstore
        kyma-project.io/installation: ""
    type: Opaque
    data:
      minio.gcsgateway.gcsKeyJson: "${GCS_KEY_JSON}"
    ---
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: ConfigMap
    metadata:
      name: asset-store-overrides
      namespace: kyma-installer
      labels:
        installer: overrides
        component: assetstore
        kyma-project.io/installation: ""
    data:
      minio.persistence.enabled: "false"
      minio.gcsgateway.enabled: "true"
      minio.defaultBucket.enabled: "false"
      minio.gcsgateway.projectId: "${PROJECT}"
      global.minioExternalEndpoint: "https://storage.googleapis.com"
    EOF
    ```

> 8. Lable the `kyma-installtion` custom resource by running `kubectl label installation/kyma-installation action=install` to trigger Kyma installation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
8. Label the `kyma-installtion` custom resource by running `kubectl label installation/kyma-installation action=install` to trigger Kyma installation.
```

> >**CAUTION** When you install Kyma locally from sources, you need to manually add the ConfigMap to the `installer-config-local.yaml.tpl` template located under the `installation/resources` subfolder before you run the installation script.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
>**CAUTION** When you install Kyma locally from sources, you need to manually add the ConfigMap and the Secret to the `installer-config-local.yaml.tpl` template located under the `installation/resources` subfolder before you run the installation script.
```

## Steps

You can set Minio to the GCS Gateway mode both during and after Kyma installation. In both cases you need to create and configure a Google service account, apply a ConfigMap with an override onto a cluster or Minikube, and trigger the Kyma installation process. 

>**CAUTION:** Buckets created in Minio without using Bucket CR are neither recreated nor migrated while switching to the Minio Gateway mode.

> ### Google service accounts

Reviewer 3: Create Google Cloud service account

    ```bash
    gcloud iam service-accounts keys create $SECRET_FILE --iam-account=$SA_NAME@$PROJECT.iam.gserviceaccount.com
    ```
5. Export the private key as the environment variable:
    ```bash
    export GCS_KEY_JSON=$(< "${SECRET_FILE}" base64 | tr -d '\n')
    ```

> ### ConfigMap

Reviewer 3: it is not just a configmap, anyway I think that if it comes to steps, headings should describe action/step

ConfigMap = Configure Minio Gateway mode

Apply the following ConfigMap with an override onto a cluster or Minikube. Run:
```bash
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
    name: asset-store-overrides
    namespace: kyma-installer
    labels:
    installer: overrides
    component: assetstore
    kyma-project.io/installation: ""
type: Opaque
data:
    minio.gcsgateway.gcsKeyJson: "${GCS_KEY_JSON}"
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
    name: asset-store-overrides
    namespace: kyma-installer
    labels:
    installer: overrides
    component: assetstore
    kyma-project.io/installation: ""
data:
    minio.persistence.enabled: "false"
    minio.gcsgateway.enabled: "true"
    minio.defaultBucket.enabled: "false"
    minio.gcsgateway.projectId: "${PROJECT}"
    global.minioExternalEndpoint: "https://storage.googleapis.com"
EOF
```
>**CAUTION** When you install Kyma locally from sources, you need to manually add the ConfigMap and the Secret to the `installer-config-local.yaml.tpl` template located under the `installation/resources` subfolder before you run the installation script.

> ### Kyma installation

Reviewer 3: Trigger installation
